Add docs for `vcpkg edit` (#113)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/commands/edit.md

---
title: vcpkg edit
description: Command-line reference for the vcpkg edit command. Opens a port's folder in a new code editor window.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 7/24/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# vcpkg edit

## Synopsis

```Console
vcpkg edit <ports> [--options]

> ```

Reviewer: Would it make sense to list the options in the synopsis for completeness?

i.e., `vcpkg edit <ports> [--all] [--buildtrees]`

## Description

> Opens a port's corresponding `ports` folder in a new _Visual Studio Code_ window.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should introduce the term "`ports` folder" here; I don't believe we use that language elsewhere. I'd instead suggest something like "definition" or avoid it entirely -- "Opens a port for editing in ...".

> Opens a port's corresponding `ports` folder in a new _Visual Studio Code_ window.

Reviewer 2: Given that this command doesn't require Visual Studio Code, I don't think its summary should imply that. For example:
"... in an editor window (defaults to Visual Studio Code)".

> Opens a port's corresponding `ports` folder in a new _Visual Studio Code_ window.

Reviewer 2: We should probably add description covering the circumstances where this command works and doesn't work. For example, I don't know what this command does in the case of custom git or filesystem registries -- off the top of my head, I would assume it actually does work for filesystem registries but gives bogus results for git registries.

The `--buildtrees` option opens the package's `buildtrees` folder instead of its corresponding `ports`

> folder. The `--all` option also opens the port's related `packages`, `installed`, and `buildtrees`

Reviewer 2: I don't believe this opens the `installed` folder, but I could be wrong.

folders in the same window.

> The command accepts multiple port names, in which case, all ports are opened in the same window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command accepts multiple port names. If multiple names are provided, all ports are opened in the same window.
```

By default, vcpkg will search for _Visual Studio Code_ in well-known installation paths, set the
`EDITOR` environment variable to add a _Visual Studio Code_ executable not in the usual installation
paths.

> On Windows, vcpkg searches for a _Visual Studio Code_ or _Visual Studio Code - Insiders_ installation in:

Reviewer 2: Should we be italicizing product names like Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code? Why not Windows?

* the _Program Files_ and _Program Files (x86)_ folders,
* the `%APPDATA%\Local\Programs` folder,
* the Windows Registry.

On Linux, vcpkg searches for the _Visual Studio Code_ executable:

* `/usr/bin/code`
* `/usr/share/code/bin/code`

> On MacOS, vcpkg searches for a _Visual Studio Code_ or _Visual Studio Code - Insiders_ installation in the `Applications` folder.

Author: Apparently, we don't.

## Options

### `--all`

Opens the port's related `buildtrees`, `packages`, and `installed` folders.

### `--buildtrees`

Opens the port's `buildtrees` folder instead of the port's `ports` folder. The `buildtrees` folder
is created during the installation process and contains the package's extracted source code and log files.

Use in combination with the `vcpkg install --editable <port>` command to get a clean copy of the

> package's source code suitable for creating patch files.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to explain why `--buildtrees` is useful? I.e., for debugging build issues or for developing and testing patches? Maybe show how `--buildtrees` could be used with `vcpkg install --editable <port>`  or give an example?

Author: I think that example belongs in its own article about debugging and patching packages.

> package's source code suitable for creating patch files.

Author: I was under the impression that `--packages` existed, but it doesn't.

---
title: vcpkg edit
description: Command-line reference for the vcpkg edit command. Opens a port's contents in a text editor window.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 8/2/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# vcpkg edit

## Synopsis

```Console
vcpkg edit <ports> [--all] [--buildtrees] [options]
```

## Examples

### Open multiple ports

```Console
vcpkg edit fmt zlib 
```

### Open related folders

```Console
vcpkg install fmt
vcpkg edit fmt --all
```

## Description

Opens a port for editing in a text editor window (defaults to Visual Studio Code).

If multiple port names are provided, all ports are opened in the same window.

> This command does not work with ports from external registries, only ports from the built-in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This command does not work with ports from external registries. Only ports from the built-in
```

registry can be opened.

The `--buildtrees` option opens the package's `buildtrees` folder instead of the port's contents.

> The `--all` option also opens the port's related `packages`, and `buildtrees` folders in the same window.

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't be a comma between "`packages`, and`

By default, vcpkg will search for Visual Studio Code in well-known installation paths.
Set the `EDITOR` environment variable to specify a text editor program to use.

On Windows, vcpkg searches for a Visual Studio Code or Visual Studio Code Insiders installation in:

* the `%ProgramFiles%` and `%ProgramFiles(x86)%` folders
* the `%APPDATA%\Local\Programs` folder
* the Windows Registry

> On Linux, vcpkg searches for the Visual Studio Code executable:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Linux, vcpkg searches for the Visual Studio Code executable in:
```

* `/usr/bin/code`
* `/usr/share/code/bin/code`

On MacOS, vcpkg searches for a Visual Studio Code or Visual Studio Code Insiders installation in the `Applications` folder.

If Visual Studio Code is not found, vcpkg attempts to use the default text editor configured for
your system.

## Options

All vcpkg commands support a set of [common options](common-options.md).

### `--all`

> Opens the port's related `buildtrees`, and `packages` folders.

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't be a comma
